Assignment	4
Due	(by	email)	before	class	on	Tuesday,	February	23th.
Continuing	with	the	code	you	developed	for	assignment	3…
As	a	separate	module,	and	in	a	separate	source	file,	design	and	implement	a	hash	
table	facility.		This	module	should	have	the	following	characteristics:
1) Permit	the	user	to	insert	a	key/value	pair.
2) Permit	the	user	to	search	for	and	obtain	the	value	associated	with	a	key.
3) The	module	can	expect	all	keys	to	be	strings.
4) The	module	should	support	a	pointer	to	anything as	a	value	(think	void*)
5) Permit	the	user	to	apply	a	function	to	every	key/value	pair	in	the	table.
6) Provide	a	method	for	freeing	the	heap	allocated	memory	used	by	the	table.
7) Use	the	technique	known	as	separate	chaining to	deal	with	hash	table	
collisions.
8) Do	a	bit	of	online research	to	find	a	reasonable	hashing	algorithm.
Your	hash	table	facility	should	reside	in	its	own	source	file	with	a	corresponding	
header	file	containing	the	declarations	associated	with	the	interface	to	the	facility.
The	next	phase	of	this	assignment	thread	will	be	to	have	the	size	of	the	hash	table	
grow	transparently	in	order	to	maintain	a	high	search	speed.		While	this	is	not	a	
current	requirement,	you	would	be	well	advised	to	consider	how	you	would
implement	feature this	as	you	design	your	hash	table.
Re-write	your	word	counting	program	to	use	the	hash	table	facility	rather	than	the	
linear	linked	list	of	the	last	assignment.		In	this	case,	the	value	associated	with	a	key	
(word),	will	be	a	pointer	to	an	integer.		If	an	incoming	word	is	found	with	a	search	of	
the	hash	table,	then	the	associated	integer	will	be	incremented.		If	the	incoming	
word	is	not	found,	then	a	new	key/value	pair	will	be	inserted	in	the	hash	table	with	
an	integer	count	of	one.		To	print	the	contents	of	the	table,	you	will	want	to	apply	a	
print	function	to	the	hash	table.
Write	a	makefile	for	your	program	which	(by	default)	builds	an	executable	for	this	
program.		Package	up	your	source	files	and	makefile	in	a	tar-ball	and	attach	it	to	an	
email	to	submit	this	assignment	(do	not	include	derived	files	in	your	tar-ball).